Ladies and gentlemen, this is Estes Kefauver, candidate for re-election to the United States
Senate for a second term.
On this occasion I want to talk with you for a little while about the work of our Senate
Crime Investigating Committee.
We will all recall that back in 1950 and before that time it was generally reported and
acknowledged that there were syndicated interstate criminal operations operating all across
this country on an organized basis.
They had become so powerful that many local communities were unable to cope with them.
They were on the upgrade all through the nation.
Well something had to be done about it.
I filed a resolution for the establishment of a Senate committee to investigate this
situation.
I fought for this resolution through the Judiciary Committee and on the floor of the Senate
over substantial opposition.
Then after the committee was created the committee of five went from one part of this nation to
the other holding hundreds of hearings in the large cities, the nerve centers of organized
crime, bringing before us the leading record peers and gangsters and criminals of this nation.
We exposed them for what they were.
We turned the spotlight of public opinion upon them.
What we found was that they were taking billions and billions of dollars away from the American
people in gambling and in all other kinds of crime.
But with this tremendous amount of money they were getting into all kinds of legitimate
businesses where they used the same unfair business methods that they did in their gang
life.
But to even worse than this they were warming their way into politics and the government
at all levels, local state and even the federal.
And in this government, in this effort they were taking over the law enforcement agencies
of some of our towns and counties.
Well this is eating at the very heart of our democracy.
We know that nations that were as great in their time as we are in our time have passed
away and become third-rate nations, not because of invasion from without, but because of
crime and corruption within.
And we don't want that to happen to the United States.
Well as a result of our crime investigating committee and Mr. J. Edgar Hoover has lauded
the work of our committee and said this is true, the gangs have been broken up.
America is a cleaner nation.
The Great Nationwide Wire Service which furnished gambling information to bookmakers and gambling
places all over the United States, which was operated by Mickey McBride out of Chicago,
had to go out of business because we exposed it.
We showed where the connections were and who was operating them.
It was this Great Nationwide Wire Service that held together the gangsters into an organized
society which was such a great menace to our nation.
It's interesting to note in passing that an associate of Mr. McBride, the general manager
of the radio station which he and his son, Owen Mostard, WMEI down at Miami, has been
in Tennessee as a political consultant of one of my opponents and has been putting on
in many of the large cities what he's called a talkathon.
Well I know that these people don't like me.
I know that they want to get revenge.
I know that they don't want me in the United States Senate but I'm glad to have them on
the other side.
As a result of our crime investigating committee many of the top criminals have been put
out of business.
Many have been in jail.
Many have been deported.
But most important of all I think America is a much cleaner place with better people
participating in politics and in government and insisting upon good law enforcement everywhere.
I'm proud of the work that our Senate crime investigating committee did.
Ladies and gentlemen this is Estus Keefer, candidate for re-election to the United States
Senate for our second term.
On this occasion I want to talk with you for a little while about the work of our Senate
crime investigating committee.
You will all recall that back in 1950 and before that time it was generally reported and
acknowledged that there were syndicated interstate criminal operations operating all across
this country on an organized basis.
They had become so powerful that many local communities were unable to cope with them.
They were on the upgrade all through the nation.
Well something had to be done about it.
I filed a resolution for the establishment of a Senate committee to investigate this
situation.
I fought for this resolution through the Judiciary Committee and on the floor of the Senate
over substantial opposition.
Then after the committee was created the committee of five went from one part of this nation to
the other holding hundreds of hearings in the large cities, the nerve centers of organized
crime, bringing before us the leading record tiers and gangsters and criminals of this nation.
We exposed them for what they were.
We turned the spotlight of public opinion upon them.
What we found was that they were taking billions and billions of dollars away from the American
people in gambling and in all other kinds of crime.
But with this tremendous amount of money they were getting into all kinds of legitimate
businesses where they used the same unfair business methods that they did in their gang
life.
But that even worse than this they were warming their way into politics and the government
at all levels, local state and even the federal.
And in this government, in this effort they were taking over the law enforcement agencies
of some of our towns and counties.
Well this is eating at the very heart of our democracy.
We know that nations that were as great in their time as we are in our time have passed
away and become third-rate nations, not because of invasion from without, but because of
crime and corruption within.
And we don't want that that to happen to the United States.
Well as a result of our crime investigating committee and Mr. J. Edgar Hoover has lauded
the work of our committee and said this is true, the gangs have been broken up.
America is a cleaner nation.
The Great Nationwide Wire Service which furnished gambling information to bookmakers and gambling
places all over the United States, which was operated by Mickey McBride out of Chicago,
had to go out of business because we exposed it.
We showed where the connections were and who was operating them.
It was this Great Nationwide Wire Service that held together the gangsters into an organized
society which was such a great menace to our nation.
It's interesting to note in passing that an associate of Mr. McBride, the general manager
of the radio station which he and his son own most of WMEI down at Miami, has been in Tennessee
as a political consultant of one of my opponents and has been putting on in many of the large
cities what he's called a talkathon.
Well I know that these people don't like me.
I know that they want to get revenge.
I know that they don't want me in the United States Senate but I'm glad to have them on
the other side.
As a result of our crime investigating committee many of the top criminals have been put
out of business.
Many have been in jail.
Many have been deported.
But most important of all I think America is a much cleaner place with better people
participating in politics and in government and insisting upon good law enforcement everywhere.
I'm proud of the work that our Senate crime investigating committee did.
Ladies and gentlemen this is Estes Keefolver speaking.
I'm seeking re-election to a second term in the United States Senate.
On this occasion I want to talk with you about the biggest issue before the American people
and indeed the free people anywhere in the world.
And that is the great issue of war or peace.
Whether we're going to be able to have something better and fighting wars every 25 years.
We know that civilization cannot exist if we're going to have continuing atomic and hydrogen
bomb wars.
We also know that if there is light in the world today it's going to be our nation that
will have to finish the light and the leadership.
But if we're going to have a chance of living in a peaceful world where wars will not be fought
to the devastation of society.
That it will largely be through the leadership of the United States of America.
Therefore anything that we can do in order to bring about peace with honor we want to
do.
And I want any effort that I can make.
And might contribute to this.
I have always in the past made and I will make in the future.
As a young man the idea of the League of Nations advanced by that great president Woodrow Wilson
caught my imagination.
I've always felt that if we had used the prestige and the spiritual strength and the economic
stability of the United States in the League of Nations as was recommended by Woodrow Wilson
at this second war might have been avoided.
So that after we had fought to victory in World War II we had no alternative but to play
our part for good among the nations of the world.
I was proud of the fact that it was a great tenisee and who fathered the United Nations.
I know the United Nations may not be popular in certain circles today.
United Nations has not accomplished everything that we would like for it to.
But after all ladies and gentlemen it is the only organization that we have in the world
through which we have a chance of working for peace.
And I think it deserves our support and backing.
I'm not in favour of recognising or admitting the present communist government of China as
a member of the United Nations and as long as we exercise the veto she cannot be a member
of the Security Council of the United Nations.
And I'm in favour of exercising that veto but I'm not in favour of destroying the United
Nations.
We must keep and we must build it up.
And likewise I've always felt that if the free people of any nation could stand together
with some kind of unity we could avoid wars because communist and totalitarians would know
that they could not defeat the democratic people as long as they were unified.
It was the hope of Kaiser Wilhelm and of the madmen Hitler and Mussolini that the democracies
would be divided.
NATO was an effort to bring together the military unity of these nations.
But in order to have military unity you must also have some kind of political and economic
understandings.
So I was very proud of the fact that along with 27 other senators including many of our
neighbors like Senator George of George and Fulbright at Warkensau, Maybank of South
Carolina, I had the privilege of sponsoring the so-called Atlantic Union resolution to
ask for a meeting to at least talk things over to see if we couldn't agree upon closer
unity.
If we had done that we might not be so far away today.
I think the United States must stay militarily strong and I've always voted to keep the United
States military might up so we could take care of ourselves.
But in addition to military strength we must lead a spiritual and economic, a political
and an educational campaign in the cause of peace in the world if we are going to be successful
and we can be successful.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is Estes Keifover.
I am seeking a re-election for a second term in the United States Senate.
On this occasion I want to talk with you about the Tennessee Valley Authority, briefly
about what it means to us and about the difficulties with the TVA today.
I'm certain that I don't need to tell any Tennessee audience the wonderful things that
we have gotten from the TVA and what it's done for our great section.
I think the TVA is the finest example of a cooperative effort between government and
the people for the development of the resources of a great section of this nation.
And we should take pride in the fact that whenever any visitors from foreign lands come
to our nation interested in seeing the finest example of democracy and action they always
come first to the Tennessee Valley region.
Well I fought for the TVA back in Chetnigger before I ever got into public life and I
fought hard and made it my principal business to support the TVA both in the House of Representatives
and since I have been in the United States Senate.
When I first came to the House of Representatives in 1939 we were just getting settled.
The matter about the acquisition of the properties of the Commonwealth and Southern, establishing
the TVA service area of which it has today.
And the next problem that came up was the question of tax replacement for the states and counties
of the states in the TVA area.
We got that tax replacement bill through and the counties have been able to go on and
be on a financial sound basis with what the TVA has paid them.
Then I worked as a member of an unofficial committee to get appropriations for the TVA in
the House when we had very, very close votes.
And in the Senate I have been just as active in trying to see that the TVA is protected
and carried on for the benefit of our people.
We know what it's meant to us agriculturally.
Just go around anywhere and see the great improvement in the agriculture and the livestock
and the way our soil is kept and compare it with what it was 20 years ago.
And in industry we have been coming into our own, developing our own industries.
Our product from our manufacturing is worth about six times today, what it was back in 1939.
And this is spread out in all of the various towns and cities of our great state.
And recreation wise, the Tennessee Valley Authority means a whole lot to us.
The TVA is not only a great asset for our section, raising our standard of living and
enabling us to contribute more to the nation.
As a matter of fact, back in 1934 we only paid 3% of the income taxes of the nation.
Now we are paying over 7%.
But it's not only a fine thing for us, it is a tremendous national asset.
Because the things that are made in other parts of the nation we have been able to buy because
we are a fine market.
Also by furnishing power to military installations we have been able to help win the last war
a whole lot more quickly than before.
But today ladies and gentlemen, the TVA is in danger.
This proposal to build a Dixon Yates steam plant and put the TVA at the mercy of the private
power lobby is just an effort to chip away and to destroy the TVA.
But our cause is right, it is made a good record, it's a fine thing.
And I'm going to continue to join others fighting for the life of the TVA.
And in the end we are going to win and save this great agency for the welfare of our people.
And of the nation.
Favouritesism to big business and to special interests.
I'll sit there again.
Keep rolling.
Favouritesism to big business and to special interests has become the watchword of the Eisenhower
administration.
This must give way to a democratic government which will seek a fair balance and an even
balance between industry, agriculture and labor.
The Republicans have substituted bluff, bluster and blunder for responsibility and foreign
affairs.
There is a crying need in the world today for imaginative leadership.
Now the United States in achieving a lasting peace.
To the end that every person in this country can have a fair and even chance.
I stand for square behind the Supreme Court's decision on desegregation.
If I'm elected president I shall do all in my power to bring together men and women
of both races on a bona fide of basis to work out the problems in an atmosphere of trust
and goodwill and justice.
Here in California you have suffered from the Republican administration's failure
to provide adequate flood control.
What we need most is not just relief for the victims of flood, but the prevention of
floods themselves through federal aid.
Harnessing and properly using the waters of our rivers is a necessary part of our program
which I will fight for as I have in the past very, very hard.
We cannot be content merely because some children have good housing, good health facilities
and good schools.
If I'm elected president I shall do all in my power to open the doors of opportunity
for all Americans regardless of race, creed or color.
Although we undeniable have interest in the Arab nations, we cannot let the brave little
republic of Israel be driven into the sea.
We must lend our prestige in seeking a solution of Middle Eastern tensions before it is too
late.
We cannot tolerate a war there which is going to destroy a brave little democracy which
is setting such a fine example for other nations in the world.
Although we undeniable have an interest in the Arab nations, we cannot let the brave
little republic of Israel be driven into the sea.
We must lend our prestige to seeking a solution in Middle East before it is too late and
we must stand by our obligations to the little republic of Israel which is setting such a
fine example for democracy to people in other parts of the world.
The recent quick and arbitrary interstate commerce commission freight rate increase is
losing California's competitive position in eastern and midwestern markets for many
of your products.
If I'm elected president I will do everything I can to restore lower rates to aid the farmers
in the state of California.
Federal senior citizens have a right to adequate social security, disability benefits and
old age assistance.
If I'm elected president I shall continue as I have for seventeen and a half years in
Congress to fight to guarantee you then a fair share of our prosperity.
We in the United States brag about our high standard of living but many of our elderly
citizens have no income at all and are in great need and want.
I am working for HR 7-8-4-8 with which many of you are for measure.
Let's at least enable our old people to get as much as a hundred dollars a month and
let's at least try to reduce the age requirement.
We in America brag about our high standard of living but many of our elderly citizens have
no income and are in great need and want.
I am working hard for HR 7-8-4-8 with which many of you are for measure.
Let's at least try to see that our elderly people get as much as a hundred dollars a month
and let's at least try to see that the age requirement for women is lowered from 65 to
62 and that deserving elderly people all over the nation can at least have a small home
and still draw old age assistance benefits.
I appreciate the leadership and the cause of our elderly people which is being given by
George McLean of the National Institute of Social Welfare and I appreciate their endorsement
and their last convention held in Los Angeles.
The Eisenhower administration's campaign to plow the small farmer under.
The Eisenhower administration's campaign to plow the small farmer under has already
cost California many millions of dollars.
I have consistently defended the interest of the small farmer and will continue to do so
if I am elected president.
I shall work consistently to see that the farmers get a fair full price for the products that
they produce and grow.
The problems of small business have been ignored by the big business administration that
we have to do.
Ladies and gentlemen, Estes Keephover.
How can we pride ourselves on having the highest standard of living in the world when we condemn
our needy ages, our blind and our physically handicapped to exist on an average payment
of less than $58 a month in order to correct this shameful neglect I have proposed in the
United States Senate that the government assume greater responsibility and public assistance
payments to the state so that we can give our American
needy at least $100 a month.
As this session of Congress is coming to an end, it would be of some interest I think
to take stock of just what has happened during these seven months of the new Eisenhower
administration.
On the viewpoint of foreign affairs I think we have had very good success during this time.
Many things have happened which of course Congress and the administration didn't have anything
to do with but which have been much in favor of the chance of fighting communism successfully
and of establishing peace in the world.
Starting with the death of Joseph Stalin and later the inevitable falling out among his
successors leading to the purge of barrier, the revolts in the satellite countries and
particularly the uprisings in East Berlin have had very significant worldwide effects.
I think communism and the Soviet Union has lost much of its political statue and influence
during these seven or eight months and then finally comes the signing of the truce and
the stopping of shooting in Korea proper.
We of course know that this isn't peace, it's only one step.
We hope that a political compromise may be made which will bring hostilities to a conclusion
in that part of the world.
But as President Eisenhower said we would be very foolish indeed if we let down in our
efforts for armament or in our desire for unity with other democratic allies with whom
we must stand.
Now coming to Congress proper I think this Congress may be remembered more for the things
that it didn't do or that it did wrong than for the accomplishments that it made.
We have accomplished some very good things.
The foreign policy generally that we have been pursuing for a number of years has been
continued.
In the field of armaments I think we have kept our defenses in very good shape except
our filthy reduction of the air force was more than justified and that it shouldn't
have been we shouldn't have abandoned our 142 wing program.
In the field of social security we haven't accomplished anything.
Housing has been brought the housing program practically to a standstill.
We in the Tennessee Valley Authority have been very much concerned about the appropriations
for the TVA.
We lost the Fulton Steam planted Memphis.
We came almost very close losing the resource development program of the Tennessee Valley
Authority.
But we did secure an appropriation of more than $180 million for the continuation of
the TVA and we will of course be back fighting for the rest of the program in the next session
of Congress.
But we fired a whole lot better than the other public power organizations did.
The Southwestern Power Authority was slashed very badly as was Bonneville out on the West
Coast and other public power developments throughout the United States.
We are determined that we are going to carry through and continue our campaign in support
of the Tennessee Valley Authority and that we are going to be successful.
One of the great issues that we have had before this Congress has been in connection with
the Tadlin's oil problem.
The Congress has a pasta bill which followed out a campaign pledge of President Eisenhower
to give the oil and the gas and the vast riches in the submerged land off of the coast
of the United States in the so-called continental shelf back to the various states.
I fought this because the Supreme Court of the United States has held seven or eight
times that the land under the continental shelf under the waters of the seas belong to
the people of the nation, all of the nation and not just to the adjacent states.
It will be seen here on this map what the continental shelf is and some places it extends
out very far.
The Congress gave the continental shelf out for three miles to the states except in the
case of Texas and Florida where they gave Texas and Florida ten and a half miles.
By making a fight against the legislation we were able to secure for the people of the
nation that out beyond the ten and a half and the three miles.
We have been trying to get that for education but as this Congress closes it looks like
our cause is lost for the time being.
There are many other matters about this Congress that is known whether we are going to have
to take up legislation to increase the debt limit to $290 billion or not.
That is the final issue that is being determined.
Ladies and gentlemen, as the first of this series of programs we are very happy to have
as our guest today Mr. Walter Stessel who I expect to know is more about Soviet affairs
than any man in the United States.
He is head of the State Department section of Soviet affairs.
Mr. Stessel spent two or three years in New World as with Ambassador Beatles Smith at
Moscow and he has been back several times since then.
Now I thought in view of the tremendous interest that we all have about what is happening behind
the iron curtain.
What is the meaning of the purge of barrier?
Whether there is going to be a disintegration in the leadership of the communist state that
many of these matters are things that we would like for Mr. Stessel to talk about.
We appreciate the fact of course that he has to keep a lot of things off the record
but we will appreciate you telling as much as you can Walter.
What do you personally think or are you in the State Department think was the cause for
the purge of barrier the head of the secret police?
We attribute it mainly to a struggle for power.
I think that is more important than any question of policy.
Do you think that there will be other purges that perhaps Molotov and Malenkov or Bolgondian
the head of the army might fall out and we would have similar situation with happening
in the future?
Well it certainly is possible.
You see in the Soviet Union political changes come about in this rather brutal way of purges
and not through free elections.
Mr. Stessel certainly as to the outside world this indicates that there is some dissension
and tremendous tension in the Soviet Russia.
Do you think that this is going to permanently decrease the strength and the prestige of the
Soviet Union or what will be the result?
Well I think that it is premature to say just what the result will be.
It is certainly possible that the regime will not be weakened in the long run and may
even be strengthened.
How do you mean it might be strengthened?
Well by removing one oppositionist element then the remaining person or persons have their
position strengthened.
Just how powerful was the barrier as head of the secret police?
It seemed to be a rather difficult job to arrest and to take out a power man with great
influence and such as he must have had.
Well that is true Senator.
He had a great deal of control because he controlled one of the sources of armed power
in the Soviet Union.
However it is a question of royalties I think.
This move obviously was planned long in advance and a great deal of detail.
And Marlenkov the man on the other side we presume probably and Dodgerly did have more
royal people than barrier did.
Well barrier had for instance 15,000, I mean 500,000 armed troops, uniform troops.
How do you rest a man with all that many people around it?
Well that is a question we would like to know just how the thing was carried out.
As I said I think it is a question of loyalty and whereas barrier might theoretically have
had control of this great force as it turned out in practice the commanders were not loyal
to barrier.
We have all of Walter got in some had a great deal of interest and some encouragement
out of the revolts in East Germany and Poland and in other places behind the Iron Curtain.
What do you think the meaning of those revolts might be?
Well it certainly shows a great deal of dishonest faction and discontent with Soviet rule in
the part of the satellites.
They want freedom, they don't like their Soviet masters.
I think the spectacle of Soviet tanks attacking East German workers will be a real setback to
international communism.
Well what can we do to exploit this situation?
I think the most important thing is to stand firm with our allies and build strength
in NATO and in EDC.
Well there is nothing in the situation to justify us, disbanding our armed establishment
and each trying to go our own way then.
Certainly not the threat is still there and we shouldn't maintain our strength.
Well thank you Walter it has certainly been good of you to come and be with us and I know
everybody who has seen and heard this program has enjoyed it.
Thank you sir, here is a pleasure.
Ladies and gentlemen I want to talk with you today about a problem that has caused
us in Congress more concern this during this session than almost any issue that we have
had before Congress and indeed before the American people.
And that is the issue of the military budget.
The portion of this budget that has caused us in Congress more soul searching than any other
is that that has to do with the Air Force.
How much air strength is this nation going to have?
The original Air Force budget call for about $16 billion to be expended in the next fiscal
year.
This has been cut by almost $5 billion in the new budget by the new administration.
Now I know that this figure sounds big but I think we ought to consider just what is
involved in this $5 billion cut.
The present strength of our Air Force is 106 wings and I am afraid that in the world today
that we have this second best Air Force which is not good enough.
The communist, communist, Russia and her satellites according to testimony have a better
Air Force than we do.
Our military leaders have set a program which had been agreed to by everybody by all of
the military people and by those who had charge of the security of this nation.
It provided for the development of an Air Force of 143 wings by June 30th, 1954, rather
1955.
Under this new program the total cut, the total Air Force has been cut back to 120 wings
and another bad part about it is that we won't even achieve 120 wings until one year later
June 30th, 1956.
Under this new program let's see some of the wings that are going to be cut out.
Five of the wings to be dropped are the strategic air command.
That has the responsibility as we all know of delivering the atomic bomb to the enemy in
the event we should get into war.
Fifteen of the wings to be dropped are the fighter and fighter bomber wings.
These are the units charged with a defense of the United States and of support for our
ground operations.
Three of the wings to be dropped are the troop carrier wings.
This has to do with the delivering of pair of troopers and it's an integral part of our
air operations even though they use transport rather than combat planes.
These are all in favor and I think we all are of cutting out all of the fat in the military
budget.
But this seems to be muscle not fat because it's an actual reduction in the number of air
wings that we're going to have.
I have reached the conclusion reluctantly that these cuts are made on budgetary rather
than upon military consideration.
I've reached that conclusion for several reasons.
The first is that the military advice of the joint chiefs of staff was not asked about
this reduction.
They were not requested to give their views as to the effect of the cut.
And as a matter of fact, the final figures were not available to them until just 36 hours
before they were directed to go up to Congress and testify in support of this reduced air
force.
And the second part is that the director of the budget wrote Mr. Wilson, the Secretary
of Defense, a letter saying that this was the figure.
It was a budgetary cut and that he should have to cut down the number of the size of
our air force to meet it.
And Mr. Wilson and Mr. Kies, who has charge of the budget and the defense department, both
testified that they were surprised that such a large cut was to be made in the air force.
They said that the surprise came that the heaviest cuts were to be in the air force.
And furthermore, no one has told us and that there's no proof that the world situation
has any less tense or difficult or dangerous.
As a matter of fact, President Eisenhower and Mr. Dulles have both said that if anything
we faced a more dangerous situation than before.
And the next reason that I feel that we should not so drastically cut the air force is that
a very substantial and influential group of military men upon whom we must have confidence
have appeared and spoken very strongly in favor of continuing the 143 wing program.
These include General Bradley, General Collins, Admiral Fleckner, General Ridgeway, and
General Twining, the new chief of the air force staff, appointed by President Eisenhower.
So that I do hope that we will not again have too little security at a time when the United
States must be strong.
I'm going to talk with you in person, but I do appreciate this opportunity of you letting
me come and join your group.
I'm going about Tennessee reporting on federal problems as they affect the people of this
state.
I also try and define ways and means that I can be a better service to the people and to
the state of Tennessee.
I hope that I may be able to see you when I'm around your way, but if I don't get to
see you in person then, I want you to know that you can always write me at 404 Senate
Office Building in Washington or call me on the telephone and I'm glad to try to be
of service if I can possibly be.
Well, of course, as to the YouTube incident, I think one of the things there is we must
consider, if we assert the right to flower other countries with spy planes, they can
assert the right to flower our country.
And I think that Cuban planes coming over us and airplanes going over Israel and Russian
planes coming over the United States and ours going over there as we can see what a
grave.
Not only I think it's not very well-morrowed and justified, but I think we can see what
a great risk we'd be taking.
Of course, we might well think that this was an all-out atomic attack or they might think
so and they nuclear war would be on.
So far, in our geophysical year, we have considered space to belong not to any particular nation
but to all of the world.
And certain that some of the satellites, the Russians, of course, they have said so, have
been orbit going around, have been taking pictures and images, messages sending them
back.
I was having been doing the same thing and there seems to be a general recognition of the
fact that space belongs as of this time to no particular nation.
I do hope some formal convention may be reached on that purpose on that basis.
But I think that that's a great deal more justified than flying planes close over the
land of some nation.
Earlier under the key fall, this week, President Eisenhower vetoed the depressed areas bill
and the Senate failed to override that veto.
How would that measure have affected Tennessee and are there any plans for a compromise?
Don, the stressed areas bill was intended to work this way.
There are some towns and some communities, some rural sections where the industry or the
employment has moved away from the people living there, leaving them just living there in their
homes, unable to find jobs or untrain to do some of the jobs that might be around.
For instance, in coal mining sections where we have many of them in the east and middle
Tennessee, the coal has been depleted but the people are still there.
There's nothing more demoralizing than that.
What this stressed areas bill would have done was to set up an area redevelopment agency
with a capital of $250 million to be loaned at a low rate of interest for the purpose of
getting industries into this section, into these sections of retraining people so that they
could work in these industries, of helping them with their housing redevelopment and their
sewage problems.
In other words, restoring the community and making it livable where they are.
My feeling about it is that we need to catch up in our national production.
It's shameful, I think, for demoralizing for people who want to work to have nothing
to do so that I thought it was a very good bill.
I'm Senator S. Keefeau, of Tennessee.
We have just completed here in Washington the fifth annual conference of NATO parliamentarians
in which the members of the Congress or the parliament from the 15 NATO countries have
met in Washington, this being the fifth meeting, to discuss ways and means of strengthening
our NATO organization, which has been the bulwark against the aggression of communism
and which has brought about unity and cooperation to some extent at least among the nations
of the North Atlantic.
We're privileged to have two very distinguished parliamentarians and members of this conference
with us who will discuss some of the problems.
I would first like to introduce Mr. Henry Fiaia, a member of the Chamber of Deputies of Belgium
and a very distinguished member who is serving as the chairman of the political committee
of the NATO parliamentarians.
Before calling on Henry for any remarks, I want to introduce an old friend, Ms. Henderson,
a member of the parliament of Great Britain and a very great friend of us here in the United
States, who is one of the originators in the NATO partner, NATO work.
First, Mr. Fiaia, as a member of the political committee, will you tell us something about
the important work of this committee and the resolutions that were passed?
We have come to the conclusion that one of the overall considerations,
with regard to the world situation, now is that there is an ever-increasing need of very
intimate cooperation between our nations in NATO.
The burden of armaments to ensure our security is so great that no single nation can
anymore think of ensuring its security by its own means and there is already the basis
for a very sound and very helpful cooperation.
But also with the developments that are at hand now, one can clearly see that when it
comes to political consultations, the devising of attitudes or economic policies that you
need intimate consultation all along between all the members of NATO and is also one of the
outstanding lessons that we've learned during our debates here.
And Mr. Harrison, will you tell us some of your feelings about this problem?
Well, I have been particularly impressed by the unanimity we achieved this morning in
the Clean Recession in support of proposals put forward by the political committee for
disarmament.
Now, let me make it quite clear, when we talk about disarmament, we do not mean unilateral
We realize that the military, the overwhelming nuclear power that is at the disposal of the
United States and my own country, as well as the military power of those associated with
a NATO, gives us this powerful shield against any attempted aggression on the part of the
Soviet Union or any other country.
And even though the Soviet Union may have comparable military power, nonetheless it does not weaken
this great deterrent.
But the world, in my view, and I think obviously in the view of the conference, cannot go on
indefinitely on present levels.
And therefore we support the proposals for an attempt being made to secure either a
limitation or we hope even substantial reduction all round.
And I, for one, I believe all three of us are in complete agreement as to the great importance
of the projected summit conference, if only to test the sincerity of Mr. Krushchev and
his associates when they say they would favor a policy of securing total disarmament within
the next two years.
But gentlemen, the both of you feel that, in view of the fact that we are now in an economic
and political contest that it's necessary that we find ways and means of better cooperation
among the democracies of the NATO organization.
Absolutely, essentially.
And is that what you have done made such a big contribution?
That's why we think that our NATO parliamentarians' conferences can help the governments
to find a way of broadening common understanding.
Well, thank you very much, Mr. Faya.
I am Mr. Henderson for being on this program and talking about NATO.
That's all for now.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, I am Estes Keef over.
I'm speaking to you from the NATO Parliamentary Conference in Paris France.
This is a meeting of a delegate selected by the Congresses and Parliament of the 15
NATO countries.
I accepted appointment as a member of the United States delegation because I believe this
meeting is of vital importance to our own safety at home and through the NATO organization
and I offer to have solidarity among the nations of the North Atlantic, Western Europe,
and of the United States.
As we have met here, two Sputniks have been constantly encircling the globe which reminds
us of the scientific contest that we are engaged in today with the communist world and of the
necessity of the people who believe in freedom, democracy, decency, joining together as closely
as possible.
Furthermore, in December just three weeks from now, the NATO Council, the heads of states,
will meet here in the same building in Paris France.
We feel that the suggestions and the work of the Parliamentarians will be helpful in paving
the way for them.
I'm very proud to have with me today a very distinguished delegate, a member of Parliament
from the United Kingdom, Mr. Jeffrey Diffrater.
Mr. Diffrater, let me say, is one of the outstanding and great men in the Parliament of our
friend and our great friend and ally, great Britain.
One of these days, Mr. Diffrater's will probably be the Secretary of Air or the Secretary of
Defense, he is a leading member of Parliament.
Mr. Diffrater's and I have had the pleasure of serving together on the so-called political
committee of the NATO Parliamentary Association.
His position is that of rapporteur.
Now that is a word that's not function is not used.
We don't know much about it in the United States, but it means that he is the chief man
on the committee that he prepares the report and he prepared an excellent political report
that he gets the consensus of opinion about the resolutions and the proposals to be made
that he then drafts the proposals and it takes the lead in the debate and has done
it splendidly when they proposals or the resolutions come before the general session
of the NATO Parliamentary Conference.
And it's been very remarkable that all of our resolutions were accepted unanimously
and that's due to great extent to define draftsmanship and explanations and to the standing
and influence of my friend here, Mr. Diffrater's.
So, we are happy to have you on this program, Jeffrey.
Thank you very much, Charles.
Let me ask, are you, um, bent to the United States a great deal and, yes, I have.
I've actually been in 47 now to the 48 states.
Well, then I know if you've been in 47 now to the 48, you must have been through the
great volunteer state of Tennessee.
I have.
I wouldn't have died columnist program if I'd been through that as the one I'd missed.
And, uh, when was it you were there, Jeffrey in Tennessee?
Well, in Tennessee that was, um, in 1935.
Well, I must have been a very, very young man at that time.
Well, I was studying at Yale at the time and so I had a look at the south.
Well, I went to school at Yale and I'm not saying I'm much of a study, but, uh, okay.
And I think you, uh, also married a very lovely American girl.
I did, I did so.
Well, we have a lot in common and certainly are happy to have Mr. Fredas as our guest today.
Well, you tell us, uh, what you think about the work of the conference and, uh, the
importance of the conference, Jeffrey.
Well, I'm, uh, one of the most important features of the fact that Senator Keith Irving was
elected chairman of the political committee, the committee, he's referred to.
You see, before you go off, I wanted to just tell the, uh, my friends in Tennessee that
I didn't put you up to.
No, thanks a lot.
I know that, but you, rather, built me up a little bit by saying I was the most important
man in the committee.
I just wanted to make it, uh, straight, uh, Senator Keith Irving was elected chairman by
the 15 countries and it's true.
I was rapporteur.
But that meant to see that as rapporteur this committee, I had to work very closely with
the chairman, so I've seen a, uh, good deal of, uh, uh, I, I, I, I, I, I have, I've had
it during the last few days.
I think the most important point that we've done is to, uh, uh, one of the most important
things we've decided was to accept the resolution looking right ahead to the conference,
governmental conference, to study the Atlantic community and what it really was based on.
Well, uh, Jeffrey, in that connection, we have a political committee reported two resolutions.
Um, first was how they, to have, uh, this NATO parliamentary association be the nucleus
around which a great citizens Congress, uh, would be held in 1959, the 10th anniversary
of the NATO treaty, uh, North Atlantic treaty.
This would be in the nature of a hate conference, I believe, uh, will you tell us how you envisioned
a, uh, yes, great conference.
And the, uh, and 959 being the anniversary of 10th anniversary, we'd have a, uh, get together
of all people representing institutions, organizations, and so on, who are interested in bringing
the countries around the Atlantic closer together.
And they would have a, the, the discuss it.
10 years ago, there was a similar conference, um, in Europe, and it had a great, it has,
had a great results in making European nations realize how much they have in common,
I'm, I'm, I'm very important.
I believe the hate conference in 1948, which Mr. Churchill and, uh, great minute distinguished
Europeans, uh, were present and spoke, I resulted in the Strasbourg, the creation of the Council
of Europe and many other, a very worthwhile things that have been done to bring the European
community together.
And that, yes, it did.
And that Council of Europe has provided twice a year opportunity for members of parliament
of different countries in Europe to meet and discuss common problems.
They don't, they can't take any executive action, but they can, uh, the different points
of view.
And I think we also envision this, uh, hate, uh, conference on the 10th anniversary of
the North Atlantic Treaty to, uh, from, uh, be a time for people back home to talk about
and think about and study, uh, NATO problems, the problems of the Atlantic community.
Because we realize that NATO will only be as strong and, and as effective as it, uh, has
backing from the people.
And this will be a time of mobilization of that public backing.
The, uh, other, uh, the other, uh, part of this, uh, very important resolution is something
that I've been wishing on for a long, long time in the Congress of the United States or
similar to it.
And that is to set up a conference or a commission, uh, the delegates of which would be selected
by the respective 15 governments of NATO to, uh, seriously study and to recommend ways
and means of implementing and, uh, the NATO idea of bringing about better cooperation
unity among the nations of the North Atlantic.
I'm very hopeful at, uh, at the meeting here in December that President Eisenhower and
the other heads of state may, uh, implement this resolution.
What do you think about this, this general idea?
I think it's a statement.
I think it, the two of them thinking very well.
One is the big Congress and this other one.
I, I believe that the government's meeting next month when everyone's, this well aware
of importance now, um, of NATO and this alliance that they will go forward and set up such
a conference.
Everything to me that in a three-day meeting such as, uh, this will be, uh, three weeks
from now with heads of government here that, uh, they can only agree upon general principles
that the implementation that details will have to be worked out by commission or, uh,
conference and, uh, this, uh, recommendation, uh, hope will fit what they may do at that time
and I know that there's no harm at least from talking things over.
Uh, Jeffrey, we had, uh, one incident in the conference, uh, unfortunate one growing
out of the, uh, decision of the United Kingdom and the United States to send the arms to
the nation of Tunisia.
Will you, uh, tell us what happened here next and then?
Well, it's, it's, uh, we're, we're in France and you only have to be here to realize how
extremely touchy the French are about anything that appears to be helping the nationalists
in Algeria.
And, of course, this has been construed in the way that it, the, the legs that arm would
go from Tunisia into Algeria and, of course, the emotions of very jarred off of old French
hair people, fighting where I'd be killed out.
And one manifestation of it was that the French derigation here, all the French members of
Parliament, um, as a protest against the action of the two governments, the British and American,
left the conference walk right out.
It's my opinion, it was a silly thing to do because you gained nothing by walking out,
but just not there to put your point of view.
Uh, yes, well, I certainly agree that, uh, walking out doesn't do any good and, uh, as you
say, they can be more effective if they stay in the meeting and, uh, present their point
of view.
And, uh, I think it's fair to say that there's a great deal of sympathy with the French
position.
Uh, I can certainly understand how they feel about it.
Uh, I believe that one, uh, thing that was not done in this connection and I think this
was a mistake, uh, not to have done it was that, uh, the members of NATO, the NATO ministerial
council and Mr. Paul Enre's, Bob, the, uh, Secretary General of NATO was not, he was not
informed.
There was no consultation between the members.
So that this is, uh, one of those things that is disrupted our unity and it is something
that should have been discussed all the way around, uh, by the NATO ministerial, uh, group
before any action was taken because France is a great and precious friend of the United
States and the United Kingdom and we don't want anything to happen that's going to permanently
disrupt your eye or cause a, uh, this unity with, uh, France, we certainly hope they will
come back in the conference and I hope that in the future that our State Department may,
uh, hell of matters differently.
I'm not very, I doubt very much the wisdom of what they did, but certainly the way they
did it was bad.
Yes.
Well, Devere, will you tell us some of the other, uh, outstanding achievements of this, uh,
conference?
So, on that very point, of course, we passed our committee off of the resolution, which
was accepted unanimously, just, just, um, this morning on this very matter.
Uh, that is to say, the importance, stressing the importance of consultation between the nations.
And then, uh, well, the scientific point, I think that's an important one, but yes,
why don't you say a word about the, uh, scientific?
Well, it's just that we've all, we've accepted the resolution of the Bay Deal of Pooling of
scientific and technical manpower among the NATO countries.
The general principle is there.
It's up to us to implement it.
That was, uh, really an implementation of our President Eisenhower and Prime Minister
Macmillan agreed upon in Washington sometime back.
And that, uh, report incidentally was presented by Senator Henry Jackson from the state of
Washington, who is a great friend of us in Tennessee.
Well, uh, and Jeffrey, this is about all the time we have.
We want to extend you a welcome to come down to our state.
Uh, we hope you will come down and see the Tennessee Valley Authority again, like you.
And, uh, we'll be very happy to see you and it's been a great pleasure to be on this
program.
Thanks very much.